README.md, before:

# [Water Monitoring System](https://vinitshahdeo.github.io/Water-Monitoring-System/) - IoT Project

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/blob/master/LICENSE) [![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/stargazers) [![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System.svg?logo=github&color=teal)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/network) [![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?color=yellow&logo=javascript)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System) 

> **You can view the demo [here](https://vinitshahdeo.github.io/Water-Monitoring-System/src/home.html).**

[![Water Monitoring System](https://img.shields.io/badge/Water&nbsp;Monitoring-System-teal.svg?colorA=teal&colorB=orange&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/) [![IoT](https://img.shields.io/badge/IoT-Project-teal.svg?colorA=blue&colorB=red&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/)

Water Monitoring System is an IOT based Liquid Level Monitoring system that has mechanisms to keep the user alerted in case of liquid overflow or when tank depletes. The water tanks can be fixed with ultrasonic sensors that is placed over the container. Ultrasonic sensor is used to measure, compare container depth and liquid level.

The status of the system could be monitored by an LCD screen or a web page that provides a brilliant graphical representation. Colours are used to depict various scenarios with respect to the amount of liquid in the tanks or containers and the buzzer buzzes when the limit exceeds the permissible quantity of fill.

### Goals of this project : 

- ***To reduce the wastage of water across the city***
- ***To provide better water supply to the people***

```js
  ____                   __        __    _            
 / ___|  __ ___   _____  \ \      / /_ _| |_ ___ _ __ 
 \___ \ / _` \ \ / / _ \  \ \ /\ / / _` | __/ _ \ '__|
  ___) | (_| |\ V /  __/   \ V  V / (_| | ||  __/ |   
 |____/ \__,_| \_/ \___|    \_/\_/ \__,_|\__\___|_|   
  ____                    _     _  __                 
 / ___|  __ ___   _____  | |   (_)/ _| ___            
 \___ \ / _` \ \ / / _ \ | |   | | |_ / _ \           
  ___) | (_| |\ V /  __/ | |___| |  _|  __/           
 |____/ \__,_| \_/ \___| |_____|_|_|  \___|           
                                                      
```

> **Click [here](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/blob/master/docs/Water%20level%20monitoring%20system.pdf?raw=true) to download the report.**

The IoT(Hardware) components required are:

- **AVR family microcontroller**
- **LCD screen**
- **Wifi modem**
- **A buzzer**
- **12V transformer**

## Getting Started

[![GitHub code size in bytes](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=github)](https://vinitshahdeo.github.io/Water-Monitoring-System/) [![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?color=bluevoilet&logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/commits/)  [![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=github)](https://vinitshahdeo.github.io/Water-Monitoring-System/)

**1.** Fork [this](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/) repository.

**2.** Clone the forked repository.
```terminal
git clone https://github.com/<your-github-username>/Water-Monitoring-System
```

**3.** Navigate to the project directory.
```terminal
cd Water-Monitoring-System
```

**4.** Create a new branch.
```terminal
git checkout -b <your_branch_name>
```

**5.** Make changes in source code.

**6.** Commit your changes.

```terminal
  git add .
  git commit -m "<your_commit_message>"
```

**7.** Push your local branch to the remote repository.
```terminal
git push -u origin <your_branch_name>
```

**8.** Create a PR!

**9.** **Congratulations!** Sit and relax, you've made your contribution to [Water Monitoring System](https://vinitshahdeo.github.io/Water-Monitoring-System/) project.

## Issues

[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=github)](https://github.com/codeuino/Water-Monitoring-System/issues) [![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat&logo=git&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo) [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo)


| TITLE  | LEVEL  |
|---|---|
| [UI Enhancements](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/2)  | `EASY`  |
| [Project Documentation](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/3)  | `VERY EASY`  |
| [Setting up Cloud APIs to send/receive data](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/4)  | `MEDIUM` |
| [Admin Dashboard ](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/5)  | `HARD` |
| [Notify stakeholders](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/6)  | `ADVANCED`  |

**NOTE**: **Feel free to [open issues](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/new/choose)**. Make sure you follow the Issue Template provided.

## Contribution Guidelines

![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-raw/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=git&logoColor=white) ![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=github) [![Vinit Shahdeo](https://img.shields.io/badge/Author-@vinitshahdeo-gray.svg?colorA=gray&colorB=dodgerblue&logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/)

- Write clear meaningful git commit messages (Do read [this](http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)).

- Make sure your PR's description contains GitHub's special keyword references that automatically close the related issue when the PR is merged. (Check [this](https://github.com/blog/1506-closing-issues-via-pull-requests) for more info)

- When you make very very minor changes to a PR of yours (like for example fixing a text in button, minor changes requested by reviewers) make sure you squash your commits afterward so that you don't have an absurd number of commits for a very small fix. (Learn how to squash at [here](https://davidwalsh.name/squash-commits-git))

-  When you're submitting a PR for a UI-related issue, it would be really awesome if you add a screenshot of your change or a link to a deployment where it can be tested out along with your PR. It makes it very easy for the reviewers and you'll also get reviews quicker.

- Please follow the [PR Template](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/blob/master/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) to create the PR.

- Always create PR to `develop` branch.

- Please read our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

- Refer [this](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more.


## Frequently Asked Questions(FAQs) for [GSSoC'20](https://www.gssoc.tech/)

> This project is accepting contributions under [GirlScript Summer of Code 2020](https://www.gssoc.tech/) - three months long Open Source program conducted by [GirlScript Foundation](https://www.gssoc.tech/).

[![GSSoC](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GirlScriptSummerOfCode/MentorshipProgram/master/GSsoc%20Type%20Logo%20Black.png)](https://www.gssoc.tech/)

#### *1. How to start as a beginner so as to contribute to the project?*
*There are many beginner level issues to begin with, which include documentation, development and design. Also, feel free to make issues for features as well as for reporting bugs.Participants can claim an issue by commenting that they are interested in it. We are also open to new ideas and suggestions.*


#### *2. Is this a hardware/IoT project?*
*Yes, it is a hardware/IoT + software project. There would be maximum tasks related to frontend, backend, design and documentation of the website and later, it would be integarted with the real-time data from the sensors.*

#### *3. How to communicate with us?*
*All communication will happen on the Slack channel for this particular projects. Mentors can also be reached through GitHub. Avoid DMs and unnecessary mentions on slack and GitHub both. *Checkout [this](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/15) issue for more.**

#### *4. What is the Tech Stack for this project?*

- ***Frontend:** React*

- ***Backend:** Django, Node.js*

#### *5. What is the deadline for any task submission?*

*Mentors can assign issues to participants and also mention a deadline before which the issue is to be resolved. They can reassign issues in case of any delay, so be active and complete your tasks within the negotiated duration.*

## Additional Info

- If you're interested in contributing for **documentation**, please checkout `feature/documentation` branch.

- If you're interested in contributing for **backend**, please checkout the following branch according to the tech stack:

  - **Django**: `feature/backend-django` 
  - **Node.js**: `feature/backend-node`

- If you're interested in contributing for **frontend**, please checkout `feature/frontend` branch.


## Mentors

 [![Open Source Love](https://badges.frapsoft.com/os/v2/open-source.svg?v=103)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo) ![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-closed-raw/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=git&logoColor=white)

| GitHub Usernames  | Domain  |
|---|---|
| [@vinitshahdeo](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo)  | Full Stack + Documentation |
| [@ShreyaAnand](https://github.com/ShreyaAnand)  | Full Stack  |
| [@YashMeh](https://github.com/YashMeh)  | Backend |
| [@PragatiVerma18](https://github.com/PragatiVerma18)  | Backend + Documentation  |
| [@ramanaditya](https://github.com/ramanaditya)  | Backend + Hardware  |
| [@ArpitKotecha](https://github.com/ArpitKotecha)  | Backend |
| [@Manvityagi](https://github.com/Manvityagi)  | APIs + Cloud  |
| [@jainpawan21](https://github.com/jainpawan21)  | Frontend  |

[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/0)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/0)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/1)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/1)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/2)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/2)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/3)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/3)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/4)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/4)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/5)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/5)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/6)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/6)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/7)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/7)


## Useful Resources

- [Django Docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/)
- [React Docs](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html)
- [Node.js Docs](https://nodejs.org/api/)
- [Git and GitHub](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-git-a-reference-guide)


## Project Admin

[![Relative date](https://img.shields.io/date/1577392258?color=important&label=started&logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/) [![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2020?color=green&logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/)

| <a href="https://fayz.in/stories/s/1522/0/?ckt_id=ZGL1ZGVk&title=story_of_vinit_shahdeo"><img src="assets/vinit-shahdeo.jpg" width=150px height=150px /></a> |
|:---:|
| **[Vinit Shahdeo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vinitshahdeo/)**  |
| <a href="https://twitter.com/Vinit_Shahdeo"><img src="assets/twitter.png" width="32px" height="32px"></a> <a href="https://www.facebook.com/vinit.shahdeo"><img src="assets/facebook.png" width="32px" height="32px"></a> <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/vinitshahdeo/"><img src="assets/linkedin.png" width="32px" height="32px"></a> |

> ***Need help?***
***Feel free to contact me @ [vinitshahdeo@gmail.com](mailto:vinitshahdeo@gmail.com?Subject=WaterMonitoringProject)***

[![GitHub followers](https://img.shields.io/github/followers/vinitshahdeo.svg?label=Follow%20@vinitshahdeo&style=social)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/) [![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/Vinit_Shahdeo?style=social)](https://twitter.com/Vinit_Shahdeo) 


---

```javascript
/**
 *
 * {thisRepo.url} = https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/
 *
 */
if (thisRepo.isAwesome()) {
    thisRepo.fork(); // waiting for your awesome contributions :)
    thisRepo.star(); // thanks in advance :p
    thisRepo.watch((bug) => {
      if(!doesIssueExists(bug)) {
        createNewIssue(bug); // wow, that's a nice catch
      }
      else {
        checkIssueTracker(bug); // comment there
      }
    });
    thisRepo.share(); // sharing is caring :D
}

```

---

[![built with love](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/built-with-love.svg)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/) [![powered by water](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/powered-by-water.svg)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/) [![smile please](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/makes-people-smile.svg)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/)

Commit message:

added first-timers-only issues link

README.md, after:

# [Water Monitoring System](https://vinitshahdeo.github.io/Water-Monitoring-System/) - IoT Project

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/blob/master/LICENSE) [![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/stargazers) [![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System.svg?logo=github&color=teal)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/network) [![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?color=yellow&logo=javascript)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System) 

> **You can view the demo [here](https://vinitshahdeo.github.io/Water-Monitoring-System/src/home.html).**

[![Water Monitoring System](https://img.shields.io/badge/Water&nbsp;Monitoring-System-teal.svg?colorA=teal&colorB=orange&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/) [![IoT](https://img.shields.io/badge/IoT-Project-teal.svg?colorA=blue&colorB=red&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/)

Water Monitoring System is an IOT based Liquid Level Monitoring system that has mechanisms to keep the user alerted in case of liquid overflow or when tank depletes. The water tanks can be fixed with ultrasonic sensors that is placed over the container. Ultrasonic sensor is used to measure, compare container depth and liquid level.

The status of the system could be monitored by an LCD screen or a web page that provides a brilliant graphical representation. Colours are used to depict various scenarios with respect to the amount of liquid in the tanks or containers and the buzzer buzzes when the limit exceeds the permissible quantity of fill.

### Goals of this project : 

- ***To reduce the wastage of water across the city***
- ***To provide better water supply to the people***

```js
  ____                   __        __    _            
 / ___|  __ ___   _____  \ \      / /_ _| |_ ___ _ __ 
 \___ \ / _` \ \ / / _ \  \ \ /\ / / _` | __/ _ \ '__|
  ___) | (_| |\ V /  __/   \ V  V / (_| | ||  __/ |   
 |____/ \__,_| \_/ \___|    \_/\_/ \__,_|\__\___|_|   
  ____                    _     _  __                 
 / ___|  __ ___   _____  | |   (_)/ _| ___            
 \___ \ / _` \ \ / / _ \ | |   | | |_ / _ \           
  ___) | (_| |\ V /  __/ | |___| |  _|  __/           
 |____/ \__,_| \_/ \___| |_____|_|_|  \___|           
                                                      
```

> **Click [here](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/blob/master/docs/Water%20level%20monitoring%20system.pdf?raw=true) to download the report.**

The IoT(Hardware) components required are:

- **AVR family microcontroller**
- **LCD screen**
- **Wifi modem**
- **A buzzer**
- **12V transformer**

## Getting Started

[![GitHub code size in bytes](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=github)](https://vinitshahdeo.github.io/Water-Monitoring-System/) [![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?color=bluevoilet&logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/commits/)  [![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=github)](https://vinitshahdeo.github.io/Water-Monitoring-System/)

**1.** Fork [this](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/) repository.

**2.** Clone the forked repository.
```terminal
git clone https://github.com/<your-github-username>/Water-Monitoring-System
```

**3.** Navigate to the project directory.
```terminal
cd Water-Monitoring-System
```

**4.** Create a new branch.
```terminal
git checkout -b <your_branch_name>
```

**5.** Make changes in source code.

**6.** Commit your changes.

```terminal
  git add .
  git commit -m "<your_commit_message>"
```

**7.** Push your local branch to the remote repository.
```terminal
git push -u origin <your_branch_name>
```

**8.** Create a PR!

**9.** **Congratulations!** Sit and relax, you've made your contribution to [Water Monitoring System](https://vinitshahdeo.github.io/Water-Monitoring-System/) project.

## Issues

[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=github)](https://github.com/codeuino/Water-Monitoring-System/issues) [![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat&logo=git&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo) [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo)


| TITLE  | LEVEL  |
|---|---|
| [UI Enhancements](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/2)  | `EASY`  |
| [Project Documentation](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/3)  | `VERY EASY`  |
| [Setting up Cloud APIs to send/receive data](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/4)  | `MEDIUM` |
| [Admin Dashboard ](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/5)  | `HARD` |
| [Notify stakeholders](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/6)  | `ADVANCED`  |

**NOTE**: **Feel free to [open issues](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/new/choose)**. Make sure you follow the Issue Template provided.

## Contribution Guidelines

![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-raw/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=git&logoColor=white) ![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=github) [![Vinit Shahdeo](https://img.shields.io/badge/Author-@vinitshahdeo-gray.svg?colorA=gray&colorB=dodgerblue&logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/)

- Write clear meaningful git commit messages (Do read [this](http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)).

- Make sure your PR's description contains GitHub's special keyword references that automatically close the related issue when the PR is merged. (Check [this](https://github.com/blog/1506-closing-issues-via-pull-requests) for more info)

- When you make very very minor changes to a PR of yours (like for example fixing a text in button, minor changes requested by reviewers) make sure you squash your commits afterward so that you don't have an absurd number of commits for a very small fix. (Learn how to squash at [here](https://davidwalsh.name/squash-commits-git))

-  When you're submitting a PR for a UI-related issue, it would be really awesome if you add a screenshot of your change or a link to a deployment where it can be tested out along with your PR. It makes it very easy for the reviewers and you'll also get reviews quicker.

- Please follow the [PR Template](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/blob/master/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) to create the PR.

- Always create PR to `develop` branch.

- Please read our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

- Refer [this](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more.


## Frequently Asked Questions(FAQs) for [GSSoC'20](https://www.gssoc.tech/)

> This project is accepting contributions under [GirlScript Summer of Code 2020](https://www.gssoc.tech/) - three months long Open Source program conducted by [GirlScript Foundation](https://www.gssoc.tech/).

[![GSSoC](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GirlScriptSummerOfCode/MentorshipProgram/master/GSsoc%20Type%20Logo%20Black.png)](https://www.gssoc.tech/)

#### *1. How to start as a beginner so as to contribute to the project?*
*There are many beginner level issues to begin with, which include documentation, development and design. Also, feel free to make issues for features as well as for reporting bugs.Participants can claim an issue by commenting that they are interested in it. We are also open to new ideas and suggestions.*


#### *2. Is this a hardware/IoT project?*
*Yes, it is a hardware/IoT + software project. There would be maximum tasks related to frontend, backend, design and documentation of the website and later, it would be integarted with the real-time data from the sensors.*

#### *3. How to communicate with us?*
*All communication will happen on the Slack channel for this particular projects. Mentors can also be reached through GitHub. Avoid DMs and unnecessary mentions on slack and GitHub both. *Checkout [this](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues/15) issue for more.**

#### *4. What is the Tech Stack for this project?*

- ***Frontend:** React*

- ***Backend:** Django, Node.js*

#### *5. What is the deadline for any task submission?*

*Mentors can assign issues to participants and also mention a deadline before which the issue is to be resolved. They can reassign issues in case of any delay, so be active and complete your tasks within the negotiated duration.*

## Additional Info

- If you're interested in contributing for **documentation**, please checkout `feature/documentation` branch.

- If you're interested in contributing for **backend**, please checkout the following branch according to the tech stack:

  - **Django**: `feature/backend-django` 
  - **Node.js**: `feature/backend-node`

- If you're interested in contributing for **frontend**, please checkout `feature/frontend` branch.

> **Note:** Are you an **absolute beginner?** Please [check the issues](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Afirst-timers-only) labeled with `first-timers-only`. These issues might _let your Open Source journey begin_ - **Welcome onboard!**


## Mentors

 [![Open Source Love](https://badges.frapsoft.com/os/v2/open-source.svg?v=103)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo) ![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-closed-raw/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System?logo=git&logoColor=white)

| GitHub Usernames  | Domain  |
|---|---|
| [@vinitshahdeo](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo)  | Full Stack + Documentation |
| [@ShreyaAnand](https://github.com/ShreyaAnand)  | Full Stack  |
| [@YashMeh](https://github.com/YashMeh)  | Backend |
| [@PragatiVerma18](https://github.com/PragatiVerma18)  | Backend + Documentation  |
| [@ramanaditya](https://github.com/ramanaditya)  | Backend + Hardware  |
| [@ArpitKotecha](https://github.com/ArpitKotecha)  | Backend |
| [@Manvityagi](https://github.com/Manvityagi)  | APIs + Cloud  |
| [@jainpawan21](https://github.com/jainpawan21)  | Frontend  |

[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/0)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/0)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/1)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/1)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/2)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/2)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/3)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/3)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/4)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/4)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/5)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/5)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/6)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/6)[![](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/images/7)](https://sourcerer.io/fame/vinitshahdeo/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/links/7)


## Useful Resources

- [Django Docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/)
- [React Docs](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html)
- [Node.js Docs](https://nodejs.org/api/)
- [Git and GitHub](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-git-a-reference-guide)


## Project Admin

[![Relative date](https://img.shields.io/date/1577392258?color=important&label=started&logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/) [![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2020?color=green&logo=github)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/)

| <a href="https://fayz.in/stories/s/1522/0/?ckt_id=ZGL1ZGVk&title=story_of_vinit_shahdeo"><img src="assets/vinit-shahdeo.jpg" width=150px height=150px /></a> |
|:---:|
| **[Vinit Shahdeo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vinitshahdeo/)**  |
| <a href="https://twitter.com/Vinit_Shahdeo"><img src="assets/twitter.png" width="32px" height="32px"></a> <a href="https://www.facebook.com/vinit.shahdeo"><img src="assets/facebook.png" width="32px" height="32px"></a> <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/vinitshahdeo/"><img src="assets/linkedin.png" width="32px" height="32px"></a> |

> ***Need help?***
***Feel free to contact me @ [vinitshahdeo@gmail.com](mailto:vinitshahdeo@gmail.com?Subject=WaterMonitoringProject)***

[![GitHub followers](https://img.shields.io/github/followers/vinitshahdeo.svg?label=Follow%20@vinitshahdeo&style=social)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/) [![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/Vinit_Shahdeo?style=social)](https://twitter.com/Vinit_Shahdeo) 


---

```javascript
/**
 *
 * {thisRepo.url} = https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/Water-Monitoring-System/
 *
 */
if (thisRepo.isAwesome()) {
    thisRepo.fork(); // waiting for your awesome contributions :)
    thisRepo.star(); // thanks in advance :p
    thisRepo.watch((bug) => {
      if(!doesIssueExists(bug)) {
        createNewIssue(bug); // wow, that's a nice catch
      }
      else {
        checkIssueTracker(bug); // comment there
      }
    });
    thisRepo.share(); // sharing is caring :D
}

```

---

[![built with love](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/built-with-love.svg)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/) [![powered by water](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/powered-by-water.svg)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/) [![smile please](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/makes-people-smile.svg)](https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/)
